readme.md, before:

# Code convention - CaseNine

## First

Based upon the Google Java Style Guide: [https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html)

We have a few Apex specials that are described in this document.


## Content

* [Story](#story)
* [Architecture](#architecture)
* [Quality](#quality)
    * [Triggers](#triggers)
* [Testing](#testing)
    * [About the use of fakes](#about-the-use-of-fakes)
    * [About Test.start/stopTest](#about-test.start/stoptest)
    * [About Triggers](#about-triggers)
* [Principles](#principles)
    * [Use of repositories](#use-of-repositories)
* [Limits](#limits)
* [Style](#style)
    * [Sobject initialization](#sobject-initialization)
    * [SOQL Query](#soql-query)
    * [Column limit](#column-limit)
    * [Salesforce API names](#salesforce-api-names)


## Story


## Architecture


## Quality


### Triggers
Because Salesforce does not enforce any particiary order in which triggers are executed, only write one trigger per SObject. 
That way you are in control of the order in which things are executed. 


## Testing
There should be unit tests for your code. A unit test should be independent and do an assert for each unit. The tests for business logic should be independent so it has no dependencies on databases or external services. An exception is a repository test -- there you want to test a database transaction.

Unit tests should be clean and treated as part of the codebase. They are part of your deployment process.

The purpose of a unit test -- it should give quick feedback to check if the production code does what we expect it to do. The unit test is not responsible for testing the infrastructure and application chain. We don’t have to test the framework. The unit test does not know in what context the code will run, so therefore it should be independent and mocking should always be used when necessary. Therefore, a unit test cannot depend on the environment it runs in or data it can access, it should be self-sufficient and able to run in any environment.

For example, when testing functionality that is called from a trigger, you want to unit-test the scoped pieces of code that will be executed separately. For example, a unit test will not test the whole process of a record going through a trigger, or a process from UI to database; a unit test is not the place to do that.

A unit test will also help with designing your code. With TDD you will first write unit tests and scenarios. After that, you will improve the code, so that it will make only these tests pass.


Reference: [First-Class Tests](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2017/05/05/TestDefinitions.html)

### About the use of fakes
All database interactions require fakes in order to test application classes that use repositories. All Test classes 
should have `@IsTest(IsParallel=true)`, except repository test classes, because they need the database by nature.
A few common database interactions:
- DML statements as insert, update, upsert, delete, merge  - use repositories
- SOQL queries - use repositories
- SOSL search queries - use repositories
- `Test.getStandardPricebookId()` - generate an id yourself
- `System.schedule()` - write a wrapper interface and fake implementation to avoid database interactions
- `System.scheduleBatch()` - write a wrapper interface and fake implementation to avoid database interactions
- `System.enqueueJob()` - write a wrapper interface and fake implementation to avoid database interactions

### About Test.start/stopTest 
Another thing, only use `Test.startTest()` & `Test.stopTest()` when needed. This is because `Test.stopTest()` lets 
Salesforce test execution wait on all queued jobs to be completed. Most often you don't need those jobs to be completed, 
because you want to mock the scheduling, queuing, starting of jobs to be faked and you only want to assert that the 
job has been properly queued or scheduled.


### About Triggers
By nature Salesforce needs at least one test for a database trigger. Because we most often test the repositories against the database
you actually don't any additional tests for database triggers. The business logic that's executed in the trigger should be 
kept out of the trigger and be put in domain classes.  


## Principles


### Use of repositories

The use of repositories is a must in order to execute SOQL queries or DML statements. So all interactions with the 
database will be done in these repositories and not directly in business logic classes.

In addition, the unit test classes will use fake mock repositories instead, so the use of interfaces for this 
repositories is also required.


## Limits


## Style


### Sobject initialization

We see a Sobject initialization as an initialization of a `Map<Y, Z>`. 
How you can see a Map or List construct like: https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.8.3.1-array-initializers. 
So we assume that a Sobject initialization is a Block-like construct. (https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4-formatting)
```java
Message__c message = new Message__c(
  User__c = user.Id,
  RecordTypeId = recordTypeId,
  Status__c = 'Started',
  Send_Method__c = 'API',
  Type__c = 'Invoice',
  Start_Date__c = Date.today()
);
```


### SOQL Query

We see a query as a non-block-like statement. So here you must use continuation indents: 
( [https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.5.2-line-wrapping-indent](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.5.2-line-wrapping-indent))
```java
List<Message__c> messages = [
    SELECT Name
    FROM Message__c
    WHERE User__c = :originalMessage.User__c
        AND Type__c = :originalMessage.Type__c
        AND Started__c = false
        OR Item__c = 'Test case'
];
```


### Column limit

We currently use a column limit of 120. And not the 80/100 from Google. This because it fits better within the use of Apex.
Reference: [http://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.4-column-limit](http://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.4-column-limit)


### Salesforce API names

All API names are written in [PascalCase](http://wiki.c2.com/?PascalCase).
For example, `FieldTest__c` or `FakeObject__c`.

Commit message:

Added info on AAA pattern

readme.md, after:

# Code convention - CaseNine

## First

Based upon the Google Java Style Guide: [https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html)

We have a few Apex specials that are described in this document.


## Content

* [Story](#story)
* [Architecture](#architecture)
* [Quality](#quality)
    * [Triggers](#triggers)
* [Testing](#testing)
    * [About the use of fakes](#about-the-use-of-fakes)
    * [About Test.start/stopTest](#about-test.start/stoptest)
    * [About Triggers](#about-triggers)
* [Principles](#principles)
    * [Use of repositories](#use-of-repositories)
* [Limits](#limits)
* [Style](#style)
    * [Sobject initialization](#sobject-initialization)
    * [SOQL Query](#soql-query)
    * [Column limit](#column-limit)
    * [Salesforce API names](#salesforce-api-names)


## Story


## Architecture


## Quality


### Triggers
Because Salesforce does not enforce any particiary order in which triggers are executed, only write one trigger per SObject. 
That way you are in control of the order in which things are executed. 


## Testing
There should be unit tests for your code. A unit test should be independent and do an assert for each unit. The tests for business logic should be independent so it has no dependencies on databases or external services. An exception is a repository test -- there you want to test a database transaction.

You can use the AAA-pattern for a unit test. This structures the test in three parts: Arrange, Act, Assert. Reference: [Unit Testing and the Arrange, Act and Assert (AAA) Pattern
](https://medium.com/@pjbgf/title-testing-code-ocd-and-the-aaa-pattern-df453975ab80)

Unit tests should be clean and treated as part of the codebase. They are part of your deployment process.

The purpose of a unit test -- it should give quick feedback to check if the production code does what we expect it to do. The unit test is not responsible for testing the infrastructure and application chain. We don’t have to test the framework. The unit test does not know in what context the code will run, so therefore it should be independent and mocking should always be used when necessary. Therefore, a unit test cannot depend on the environment it runs in or data it can access, it should be self-sufficient and able to run in any environment.

For example, when testing functionality that is called from a trigger, you want to unit-test the scoped pieces of code that will be executed separately. For example, a unit test will not test the whole process of a record going through a trigger, or a process from UI to database; a unit test is not the place to do that.

A unit test will also help with designing your code. With TDD you will first write unit tests and scenarios. After that, you will improve the code, so that it will make only these tests pass.


Reference: [First-Class Tests](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2017/05/05/TestDefinitions.html)

### About the use of fakes
All database interactions require fakes in order to test application classes that use repositories. All Test classes 
should have `@IsTest(IsParallel=true)`, except repository test classes, because they need the database by nature.
A few common database interactions:
- DML statements as insert, update, upsert, delete, merge  - use repositories
- SOQL queries - use repositories
- SOSL search queries - use repositories
- `Test.getStandardPricebookId()` - generate an id yourself
- `System.schedule()` - write a wrapper interface and fake implementation to avoid database interactions
- `System.scheduleBatch()` - write a wrapper interface and fake implementation to avoid database interactions
- `System.enqueueJob()` - write a wrapper interface and fake implementation to avoid database interactions

### About Test.start/stopTest 
Another thing, only use `Test.startTest()` & `Test.stopTest()` when needed. This is because `Test.stopTest()` lets 
Salesforce test execution wait on all queued jobs to be completed. Most often you don't need those jobs to be completed, 
because you want to mock the scheduling, queuing, starting of jobs to be faked and you only want to assert that the 
job has been properly queued or scheduled.


### About Triggers
By nature Salesforce needs at least one test for a database trigger. Because we most often test the repositories against the database
you actually don't any additional tests for database triggers. The business logic that's executed in the trigger should be 
kept out of the trigger and be put in domain classes.  


## Principles


### Use of repositories

The use of repositories is a must in order to execute SOQL queries or DML statements. So all interactions with the 
database will be done in these repositories and not directly in business logic classes.

In addition, the unit test classes will use fake mock repositories instead, so the use of interfaces for this 
repositories is also required.


## Limits


## Style


### Sobject initialization

We see a Sobject initialization as an initialization of a `Map<Y, Z>`. 
How you can see a Map or List construct like: https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.8.3.1-array-initializers. 
So we assume that a Sobject initialization is a Block-like construct. (https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4-formatting)
```java
Message__c message = new Message__c(
  User__c = user.Id,
  RecordTypeId = recordTypeId,
  Status__c = 'Started',
  Send_Method__c = 'API',
  Type__c = 'Invoice',
  Start_Date__c = Date.today()
);
```


### SOQL Query

We see a query as a non-block-like statement. So here you must use continuation indents: 
( [https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.5.2-line-wrapping-indent](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.5.2-line-wrapping-indent))
```java
List<Message__c> messages = [
    SELECT Name
    FROM Message__c
    WHERE User__c = :originalMessage.User__c
        AND Type__c = :originalMessage.Type__c
        AND Started__c = false
        OR Item__c = 'Test case'
];
```


### Column limit

We currently use a column limit of 120. And not the 80/100 from Google. This because it fits better within the use of Apex.
Reference: [http://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.4-column-limit](http://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html#s4.4-column-limit)


### Salesforce API names

All API names are written in [PascalCase](http://wiki.c2.com/?PascalCase).
For example, `FieldTest__c` or `FakeObject__c`.
